Add Fly hosting guide (#505)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/hosting/fly.md

# Hosting: Fly <Badge text="Deno" /><Badge text="Node.js" type="warning"/>

This guide tells you about the ways you can host your grammY bots on [Fly](https://fly.io), either using Deno or Node.js.

## Preparing Your Code

You can run your bot either on [webhooks](../guide/deployment-types.md) or [long polling](../guide/deployment-types.md).

### Webhooks

> Remember that you should not call `bot.start()` in your code when using webhooks.

> You can use the example code provided in our [Deno Deploy](./deno-deploy.md#preparing-your-code) (Deno) and [Heroku](./heroku.md#express-and-its-middleware) (Node.js) hosting guide.

Reviewer: This comment should be removed. Imagine someone wants to use Fly, do they now also have to learn what Deno Deploy and Heroku are? Each tutorial must be standalone. If code ends up being identical on two pages, so be it.

Author: My point in that sentence was that people could reuse their code (either from Deno deploy or Heroku) in Fly. But, on second thought I think you have a point.

In this section, we literally transcribe the text from the both docs.

1. Make sure that you have a file which exports your `Bot` object, so that you can import it later to run it.
2. Create a file named `app.ts` or `app.js`, or actually any name you like (but you should be remembering and using this as the main file to deploy), with the following content:

<CodeGroup>
<CodeGroupItem title="Deno" active>

> ```ts{6,11}

Reviewer: Why are these two lines highlighted? This should either be explained (“as shown in the first highlighted line”), or the highlighting should be removed.

import { serve } from "https://deno.land/std/http/server.ts";
import { webhookCallback } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/mod.ts";
// You might modify this to the correct way to import your `Bot` object.
import { bot } from "./bot.ts";

const port = 8000;
const handleUpdate = webhookCallback(bot, "std/http");

await serve(async (req) => {
  const url = new URL(req.url);

>   if (req.method == "POST" && url.pathname.slice(1) == bot.token) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if (req.method === "POST" && url.pathname.slice(1) === bot.token) {
```

    try {
      return await handleUpdate(req);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err);
    }
  }
  return new Response();
}, { port });
```

</CodeGroupItem>
<CodeGroupItem title="Node.js" active>

> ```ts{6,10}

Reviewer: same

import express from "express";
import { webhookCallback } from "grammy";
// You might modify this to the correct way to import your `Bot` object.
import { bot } from "./bot";

const port = 8000;
const app = express();

app.use(express.json());
app.use(`/${bot.token}`, webhookCallback(bot, "express"));
app.use((_req, res) => res.status(200).send());

app.listen(port, () => console.log(`listening on port ${port}`));
```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

We advise you to have your handler on some secret path rather than the root (`/`).
Here, we are using the bot token (`/<bot token>`).

### Long Polling

Create a file named `app.ts` or `app.js`, or actually any name you like (but you should be remembering and using this as the main file to deploy), with the following content:

<CodeGroup>
<CodeGroupItem title="Deno" active>

```ts
import { Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/mod.ts";

> const bot = new Bot(""); // <-- insert the bot token here

Reviewer: Perhaps this guide is late enough in the development process to educate people about environment variables, and link them to https://fly.io/docs/rails/the-basics/configuration/?

bot.command(
  "start",
  (ctx) => ctx.reply("I'm running on Fly using long polling!"),
);

Deno.addSignalListener("SIGINT", () => bot.stop());
Deno.addSignalListener("SIGTERM", () => bot.stop());

bot.start();
```

</CodeGroupItem>
<CodeGroupItem title="Node.js">

```ts
import { Bot } from "grammy";

const bot = new Bot(""); // <-- insert the bot token here

bot.command(
  "start",
  (ctx) => ctx.reply("I'm running on Fly using long polling!"),
);

process.once("SIGINT", () => bot.stop());
process.once("SIGTERM", () => bot.stop());

bot.start();
```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

## Deploying

### Method 1: With `flyctl`

> This is the easiest one to go with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the easiest method to go with.
```

Visit <https://fly.io/docs/app-guides/continuous-deployment-with-github-actions> for the detailed instructions.

1. Install [flyctl](https://fly.io/docs/hands-on/install-flyctl).
2. Create a repository on GitHub, it can be either private or public.
3. Get a Fly API token with `flyctl auth token`.
4. Go to your newly created repository on GitHub and select "Settings".
5. Go to "Secrets" and create a secret called `FLY_API_TOKEN` with the value of the token from step 2.
6. Create `.github/workflows/main.yml` with these contents:

```yml
name: Fly Deploy
on: [push]
env:
  FLY_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.FLY_API_TOKEN }}
jobs:
  deploy:
      name: Deploy app
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v2
        - uses: superfly/flyctl-actions/setup-flyctl@master
        - run: flyctl deploy --remote-only
```

7. Follow steps 2 until 4 from [Method 1](#method-1-with-flyctl) above.
   Remember to skip the last step (step 5) since we are not deploying the code directly.
8. Commit your changes and push them up to GitHub.

> 9. This is where the magic happens---The push will have triggered a deploy and from now on whenever you push a change, the app will automatically be redeployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. This is where the magic happens---the push will have triggered a deploy and from now on, whenever you push a change, the app will automatically be redeployed.
```

> ### Note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting the Webhook URL

> You can skip this if you are using long polling.
```

Reviewer: Perhaps this one should be improved in the other guides as well …

If you are using webhooks, after getting your app running, you should configure your bot's webhook settings to point to your app.
To do that, send a request to

> ```md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```
or
```suggestion
```md:no-line-numbers
```
will avoid the line number

https://api.telegram.org/bot<token>/setWebhook?url=<url>
```

replacing `<token>` with your bot's token, and `<url>` with the full URL of your app along with the path to the webhook handler.

> ### Bonus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dockerfile Optimization

> This is an optional bonus section about an optimization.
> You may skip this.
```

# Hosting: Fly

This guide tells you about the ways you can host your grammY bots on [Fly](https://fly.io), either using Deno or Node.js.

## Preparing Your Code

> You can run your bot either on [webhooks or long polling](../guide/deployment-types.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run your bot using [webhooks or long polling](../guide/deployment-types.md).
```

ARG DENO_VERSION=1.25.2
ARG BIN_IMAGE=denoland/deno:bin-${DENO_VERSION}
FROM ${BIN_IMAGE} AS bin

FROM frolvlad/alpine-glibc:alpine-3.13

RUN apk --no-cache add ca-certificates

RUN addgroup --gid 1000 deno \
  && adduser --uid 1000 --disabled-password deno --ingroup deno \
  && mkdir /deno-dir/ \
  && chown deno:deno /deno-dir/

ENV DENO_DIR /deno-dir/
ENV DENO_INSTALL_ROOT /usr/local

ARG DENO_VERSION
ENV DENO_VERSION=${DENO_VERSION}
COPY --from=bin /deno /bin/deno

WORKDIR /deno-dir
COPY . .

ENTRYPOINT ["/bin/deno"]
# CMD is removed
```

</CodeGroupItem>
<CodeGroupItem title="Node.js" Active>

```json{19}
// package.json
{
  "name": "grammy",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "grammy",
  "main": "app.js",
  "author": "itsmeMario",
  "license": "MIT",
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "^4.18.1",
    "grammy": "^1.11.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/express": "^4.17.14",
    "@types/node": "^18.7.18",
    "typescript": "^4.8.3"
  },
  "engines": {
    "node": "16.14.0"
  }
}
```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

4. Edit `app` inside the `fly.toml` file.
   The path `./app.ts` (or `./app.js` for Node.js) in the example below refers to the main file directory.

>    You might modify them to match with your project directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You might modify them to match with your project's directory.
```

>    If you are using webhooks, make sure the port is same with your [config](#webhooks) (`8000`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If you are using webhooks, make sure the port is same as the one in your [configuration](#webhooks) (`8000`).
```

```

</CodeGroupItem>
<CodeGroupItem title="Node.js (Webhooks)" Active>

```toml{7,11,18,19}
# fly.toml
app = "grammy"
kill_signal = "SIGINT"
kill_timeout = 5

[processes]
  app = "node ./build/app.js"

# Adjust the NODE_ENV environment to suppress the warning
[build.args]
  NODE_ENV = "production"

[build]
  builder = "heroku/buildpacks:20"

[[services]]
  http_checks = []
  internal_port = 8000
  processes = ["app"]
  protocol = "tcp"
  script_checks = []
  [services.concurrency]
    hard_limit = 25
    soft_limit = 20
    type = "connections"

  [[services.ports]]
    force_https = true
    handlers = ["http"]
    port = 80

  [[services.ports]]
    handlers = ["tls", "http"]
    port = 443

  [[services.tcp_checks]]
    grace_period = "1s"
    interval = "15s"
    restart_limit = 0
    timeout = "2s"
```

</CodeGroupItem>
<CodeGroupItem title="Node.js (Long polling)" Active>

```toml{7,11,22,23}
# fly.toml
app = "grammy"
kill_signal = "SIGINT"
kill_timeout = 5

[processes]
  app = "node ./build/app.js"

# Adjust the NODE_ENV environment to suppress the warning
[build.args]
  NODE_ENV = "production"

[build]
  builder = "heroku/buildpacks:20"

> # Simply omitting the whole [[services]] section 
> # since we are not listening to HTTP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Simply omitting the whole of the [[services]] section since we are not listening to HTTP.
```

```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

5. Run `flyctl deploy` to deploy your code.

### Method 2: With GitHub Actions

The main advantage of following method is that Fly will watch for changes in your repository which includes your bot code, and it will deploy new versions automatically.

> Visit <https://fly.io/docs/app-guides/continuous-deployment-with-github-actions> for the detailed instructions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Visit <https://fly.io/docs/app-guides/continuous-deployment-with-github-actions> for more detailed instructions.
```

        - run: flyctl deploy --remote-only
```

6. Follow steps 2 until 4 from [Method 1](#method-1-with-flyctl) above.
   Remember to skip the last step (step 5) since we are not deploying the code directly.
7. Commit your changes and push them up to GitHub.
8. This is where the magic happens---the push will have triggered a deploy and from now on, whenever you push a change, the app will automatically be redeployed.

### Setting the Webhook URL

If you are using webhooks, after getting your app running, you should configure your bot's webhook settings to point to your app.
To do that, send a request to

```md:no-line-numbers
https://api.telegram.org/bot<token>/setWebhook?url=<url>
```

replacing `<token>` with your bot's token, and `<url>` with the full URL of your app along with the path to the webhook handler.

### Dockerfile Optimization

When our `Dockerfile` is run, it copies everything from the directory over to the Docker image.
For Node.js applications, some directories like `node_modules` are going to be rebuilt anyway so there's no need to copy them.
Create a `.dockerignore` file and add `node_modules` to it to do this.

> You can also use the `.dockerignore` to skip unused project assets and any other files which aren't needed at runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use `.dockerignore` to not copy any other files which aren't needed at runtime.
```

# Hosting: Fly

This guide tells you about the ways you can host your grammY bots on [Fly](https://fly.io), either using Deno or Node.js.

## Preparing Your Code

You can run your bot either on [webhooks](../guide/deployment-types.md) or [long polling](../guide/deployment-types.md).

### Webhooks

> Remember that you should not call `bot.start()` in your code when using webhooks.

1. Make sure that you have a file which exports your `Bot` object, so that you can import it later to run it.
2. Create a file named `app.ts` or `app.js`, or actually any name you like (but you should be remembering and using this as the main file to deploy), with the following content:

<CodeGroup>
<CodeGroupItem title="Deno" active>

```ts{11}
import { serve } from "https://deno.land/std/http/server.ts";
import { webhookCallback } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/mod.ts";
// You might modify this to the correct way to import your `Bot` object.
import { bot } from "./bot.ts";

const port = 8000;
const handleUpdate = webhookCallback(bot, "std/http");

> await serve(async (req) => {

Reviewer 3: This await can be omitted, I think?

```suggestion
serve(async (req) => {
```

Reviewer 4: I think so

);

Deno.addSignalListener("SIGINT", () => bot.stop());
Deno.addSignalListener("SIGTERM", () => bot.stop());

bot.start();
```

</CodeGroupItem>
<CodeGroupItem title="Node.js">

```ts{4}
import { Bot } from "grammy";

// Here, we take the bot token from "BOT_TOKEN" environment variable.
const bot = new Bot(process.env.BOT_TOKEN ?? "");

bot.command(
  "start",
  (ctx) => ctx.reply("I'm running on Fly using long polling!"),
);

process.once("SIGINT", () => bot.stop());
process.once("SIGTERM", () => bot.stop());

bot.start();
```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

As you can see in the highlighted line above, we take some sensitive values (your bot token) from environment variables.
Fly allow us to store that secret by running this command:

```sh:no-line-numbers
flyctl secrets set BOT_TOKEN="AAAA:12345"
```

You can specify other secrets in the same way.
For more information about this _secrets_, see <https://fly.io/docs/reference/secrets/>.

## Deploying

### Method 1: With `flyctl`

This is the easiest method to go with.

1. Install [flyctl](https://fly.io/docs/hands-on/install-flyctl).
2. Run `flyctl launch` to generate a `Dockerfile` and `fly.toml` file for deployment.

>    But, **DO NOT** deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   But **DO NOT** deploy.
```
or maybe
```suggestion
   But: **DO NOT** deploy.
```

Automatically selected personal organization: CatDestroyer
? Select region: ams (Amsterdam, Netherlands)
Created app grammy in organization personal
Wrote config file fly.toml
? Would you like to set up a Postgresql database now? No
? Would you like to deploy now? No
Your app is ready. Deploy with `flyctl deploy`
```

</CodeGroupItem>
<CodeGroupItem title="Node.js">

```sh
flyctl launch
```

```log:no-line-numbers{12}
Creating app in /my/telegram/bot
Scanning source code
Detected a NodeJS app
Using the following build configuration:
        Builder: heroku/buildpacks:20
? App Name (leave blank to use an auto-generated name): grammy
Automatically selected personal organization: CatDestroyer
? Select region: ams (Amsterdam, Netherlands)
Created app grammy in organization personal
Wrote config file fly.toml
? Would you like to set up a Postgresql database now? No
? Would you like to deploy now? No
Your app is ready. Deploy with `flyctl deploy`
```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

3. **Deno**: Change the Deno version and remove `CMD` if exist within the `Dockerfile` file.
   For example, in this case, we update `DENO_VERSION` to `1.25.2`.

>    **Node.js**: To change the Node.js version, you need to insert `node` into `engine` property inside the `package.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **Node.js**: To change the Node.js version, you need to insert a `"node"` property inside an `"engines"` property inside `package.json`.
```

   For instance, we update the Node.js version to `16.14.0` in the example below.

<CodeGroup>
<CodeGroupItem title="Deno" Active>

```dockerfile{2,26}
# Dockerfile
ARG DENO_VERSION=1.25.2
ARG BIN_IMAGE=denoland/deno:bin-${DENO_VERSION}
FROM ${BIN_IMAGE} AS bin

FROM frolvlad/alpine-glibc:alpine-3.13

RUN apk --no-cache add ca-certificates

RUN addgroup --gid 1000 deno \
  && adduser --uid 1000 --disabled-password deno --ingroup deno \
  && mkdir /deno-dir/ \
  && chown deno:deno /deno-dir/

ENV DENO_DIR /deno-dir/
ENV DENO_INSTALL_ROOT /usr/local

ARG DENO_VERSION
ENV DENO_VERSION=${DENO_VERSION}
COPY --from=bin /deno /bin/deno

WORKDIR /deno-dir
COPY . .

ENTRYPOINT ["/bin/deno"]
# CMD is removed

> ```

Reviewer 4: Is this Dockerfile autogenerated? It looks strange

Reviewer 4: It is, okay

</CodeGroupItem>
<CodeGroupItem title="Node.js" Active>

```json{19}
// package.json
{
  "name": "grammy",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "grammy",
  "main": "app.js",
  "author": "itsmeMario",
  "license": "MIT",
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "^4.18.1",
    "grammy": "^1.11.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/express": "^4.17.14",
    "@types/node": "^18.7.18",
    "typescript": "^4.8.3"
  },
  "engines": {
    "node": "16.14.0"
  }
}
```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

> 4. Edit the `app` inside the `fly.toml` file.
>    `./app.ts` (or `./app.js` for Node.js) at the example below refers to the main file directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Edit `app` inside the `fly.toml` file.
   The path `./app.ts` (or `./app.js` for Node.js) in the example below refers to the main file directory.

```

  [services.concurrency]
    hard_limit = 25
    soft_limit = 20
    type = "connections"

  [[services.ports]]
    force_https = true
    handlers = ["http"]
    port = 80

  [[services.ports]]
    handlers = ["tls", "http"]
    port = 443

  [[services.tcp_checks]]
    grace_period = "1s"
    interval = "15s"
    restart_limit = 0
    timeout = "2s"
```

</CodeGroupItem>
<CodeGroupItem title="Node.js (Long polling)" Active>

```toml{7,11,22,23}
# fly.toml
app = "grammy"
kill_signal = "SIGINT"
kill_timeout = 5

[processes]
  app = "node ./build/app.js"

# Adjust the NODE_ENV environment to suppress the warning
[build.args]
  NODE_ENV = "production"

[build]
  builder = "heroku/buildpacks:20"

# Simply omitting the whole [[services]] section 
# since we are not listening to HTTP
```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

5. Run `flyctl deploy` to deploy your code.

### Method 2: With GitHub Actions

The main advantage of following method is that Fly will watch for changes in your repository which includes your bot code, and it will deploy new versions automatically.
Visit <https://fly.io/docs/app-guides/continuous-deployment-with-github-actions> for the detailed instructions.

> 1. Install [flyctl](https://fly.io/docs/hands-on/install-flyctl).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Install [flyctl](https://fly.io/docs/hands-on/install-flyctl) and [sign in](https://fly.io/docs/hands-on/sign-in/).
```

2. Create a repository on GitHub, it can be either private or public.
3. Get a Fly API token with `flyctl auth token`.

> 4. Go to your newly created repository on GitHub and select "Settings".

Reviewer: I think English is weird here and requires this, am I wrong?
```suggestion
4. Go to your newly created repository on GitHub and select "Settings."
```

Reviewer 4: It sure looks weird. We can also just omit the quotes

Reviewer 3: What do you think about swapping 2nd and 3rd steps.

2. Get a Fly API token by running `flyctl auth token`.
3. Create a repository on GitHub, it can be either private or public.
4. Go to repository settings.

Or merge 3 & 4.

Reviewer: > It sure looks weird.

We can also just ignore this thing, and leave everything as-is. I doubt anyone will complain.

> swapping 2nd and 3rd steps

Great idea!

Reviewer 4: Agree with swapping. For merging, i think no.

3. Create a repository
4. Go to settings, choose secrets, and add api token

Looks better in two steps for me

Reviewer 3: That's better 👌

Reviewer 3: Oh, these were from here: https://fly.io/docs/app-guides/continuous-deployment-with-github-actions/#speed-run-your-way-to-continuous-deployment.

"Go to your newly created repository on GitHub and select Settings." works, but I liked Loskir's suggestion.
